#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Monthly Correlations in Seattle Weather
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Charlie Hagedorn
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Prelude
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
One night, coming home from the mountains in a cool, wet winter, I casually
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
mentioned to Susan that "next month will probably be warm, because
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
we'll regress to the mean".
 She disagreed, and so I did an analysis like this 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\emph on
one.
 I'll let you figure out who was more correct.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Problem Statement
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These are data from SeaTac Airport from 1948-present 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "key-1"

\end_inset

.
 The data were originally
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
in CSV format (I've appended it, and the unix script I used to parse it,
 in case
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
you're curious).
 I've tab-delimited the relevant columns and provided an import
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Octave script to get things started.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Question 1: Temperature
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How much does the temperature (relative to average) in a given month 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
correlate with the temperature (relative to average) in the following month?
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3 months out? 6 months out? A year out? Quantify the uncertainties.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Question 2: Precipitation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How much does the precipitation (relative to average) in a given month 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
correlate with the precipitation (relative to average) in the following
 month?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3 months out? 6 months out? A year out? Quantify the uncertainties.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
label "NOAA"
key "key-1"

\end_inset

NOAA Climate Data Online request 1000478, 2017-06-22 GHCND:USW00024233
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Precip, TMax, TMin
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
